---
layout: post
title: Lab 1.4 - Reading Digimon 
subtitle: Uddipto Nandi
---

## Objectives:
Reading and processing a csv file of Digimon using Python in Visual Studio Code using variables, lists, dictionaries, funnctions, and for loops. 

## Tasks:

### Set-Up
Before we can move on to the actual tasks we have to first open the csv in the vs code file, so that it can be read and processed later on. 

This is how I opened the Digimon csv for this lab:
```
import csv

data = None
with open("./datasets/digimon.csv") as f:
        data = list(csv.DictReader(f))
```
This section of code serves to do two things, first open the digimon.csv, and to store the data as a list called data. Since the with statement automatically returns the data from the csv has to be stored so that it can be accessed later on for the tasks. 

### Task 1: Digimon Average Speed
The objective of this task was to find the average speed of all of the digimon in the list data. To do this I first created a list to store the speeds (list_spds) of all of the digimon and stored them in that list iterating through the digimon in data and appending thier speed values to list_spds. 

This was achieved through this snippet of code:

```
list_spds = []
        for digimon in data: 
                spd = digimon["Spd"]
                list_spds.append(digimon["Spd"])
```
Now that all of the digimon speeds were isolated from the data and placed into a list called list_spds, we can find the average digimon speed by iterating through the data and adding all of the digimon speeds to a variable called total_spd and by counting how many digimon's speeds have been added and then divding the total by the counter variable. The for loop created for this purpose is shown below.
```
average_speed = 0
        total_spd = 0
        counter = 0

        for spd in list_spds:
                counter += 1
                total_spd += int(spd) 
        average_speed = total_spd/counter 
        print (average_speed)
        return
```
* Notice how the variables are defined outside of the for loop? It is incredibly important that the variables aree defined outside of the for loop so that the variables aren't reset everytime the for loop loops!
 
** Alo notice the int(spd) in the line total_spd += int(spd)? That is to convert the speed being added onto the variable total variable into an integer, since it was stored in the list list_spds as a string. This is necessary because total_spd is an int, so to add the speeds of the digimon to the variable total_spds the speed being added has to be an integer. Also this is important so that it can be divided in the end by the variable counter which is also an int. 

This code is run using the following line of code: 
```
avg_spd()
```
There is no input taken by the function because of the fact that list data can just be used directly in the fucntion without being passed in. Sometimes it is important to have inputs so that the code can be us
ed for multiple datasets but in this scenario we are only working with the dataset of digimon. 

The code runs and prints out 70, meaning that the average speed of all od the digimon is 70. 

### Task 2 : Counting Digimon with Specific Attributes (Collaborated with Claire)

The objective of this task is to tally the number of Digimon with a certain value in a certain data type. For this code we will check with the test case "Type", "Vaccine". When these two are passed in the function should return 70 because there are 70 digimon with the Type Vaccine in the data set. 

This is actually a suprisingly easy task to code even though it has to be completely soft-coded and has to work for any attribute of digmon that can be counted. 

The function and call statement is shown below: 
```
def count_digimon(data_type, value): # Since these are variables the data_type/variable that you want to count can be any of the variables that the individual digimon have
        counter = 0

        for digimon in data:
         if digimon[data_type] == value:
                counter +=1
        print(counter)
        return
```
This code iterates through the list "data" to count how many digimon have a particular value of a certain data type. This is done in the lines "if digimon[data_type] == value:/counter +=1." So for example when the parameters Type and Vaccine are passed in, this function iterates through the dataset checking the type of all of the digimon and adding 1 to the counter variable if the type if Vaccine. 

When the function is called for the parameters Type and Vaccine like in the lines of code shown below, the function returns the correct number of digimon, 70.
```
count_digimon("Type", "Vaccine")
```

### Task 3: Creating a Team

The objective of this task was to create a team of digimon with up to 3 digimon with at least 300 attack and less than 15 memory. 

*To simplify the code for this task, I created some restrictions. My code automatically creates teams of 3 even though teams of 2 are possible. It also excludes digimon that could potentially be on a team with over 300 attack and less than 15 memory based on their attack value. 

The first step pf my code was to create a table of digimon with the requirements listed above. This just meant iterating through the list "data" and checking if an individual digimon had an attack value of over 100. If it did, they were added to the list table, and if not the for loop moved to the next digimon. The code for this sorting is show below: 
```
        for digimon in data: 
                attack = int(digimon["Atk"])
                if attack >= 100:
                        table.append(digimon)
```
After this for loop sorted any digimon with attack over 100 from data into another list called table, I needed some way to take 3 of these digimon and check if their total memory was less than 15. To do this however we need several variables to be defined ouotside of the for loop. They are shown below: 
```
        digi_1 = {} 
        digi_2 = {}
        digi_3 = {}
        a=0
        b=1     
        c=2
```
These variables need to be defined outside of the for loop so they are not reset every time the loops iterates. 

The for loop is shown below: 
```
for digimon in table: 
                total_memory = 0
                digi_1 = table[a]
                digi_2 = table[b]
                digi_3 = table[c]

                memory_1 = digi_1["Memory"]
                memory_2 = digi_2["Memory"]
                memory_3 = digi_3["Memory"]
                total_memory = int(memory_1) + int(memory_2) + int(memory_3)
                
                attack_1 = digi_1["Atk"]
                attack_2 = digi_2["Atk"]
                attack_3 = digi_2["Atk"]
                total_attack = int(attack_1) + int(attack_2) + int(attack_3)

                if total_memory <= 15: 
                        print("Team Compostion:" + " " + str(digi_1["Digimon"]) + ", " + str(digi_2["Digimon"]) + ", " + str(digi_3["Digimon"]))
                        print("\tTotal Attack = " + str(total_attack) + ", " + "Total Memory = " + str(total_memory))
                        a += 1
                        b += 1
                        c += 1
```

This code takes the first three digimon in the table which have indices 0, 1, and 2 but they are represented as variables (a, b, and c) in this code so that all adjacent sets of digimon can be checked for the conditions attack > 300 and memory < 15 when you add 1 to each variable each time. This code checks for total memory by storing the memory of the three digimon being looked at for a possible team in 3 memory vairables (memory_1, memory_2, and memory_3) and then adding them together by converting them all to integers. Afterwards the if statement "if total_memory <= 15" is true then the team, its total attack, and its total memory aree printed out by calling the function below: 
```
create_team()   
```

These are all the posible teams geenerated by this funtion: 

Team Compostion: Koromon, Tsunomon, Tsumemon 
        Total Attack = 323, Total Memory = 9 

Team Compostion: Tsunomon, Tsumemon, Agumon
        Total Attack = 323, Total Memory = 11 

Team Compostion: Tsumemon, Agumon, Agumon (Blk)
        Total Attack = 370, Total Memory = 13 

Team Compostion: Agumon, Agumon (Blk), Gaomon
        Total Attack = 379, Total Memory = 15. 

Team Compostion: Agumon (Blk), Gaomon, Gazimon
        Total Attack = 360, Total Memory = 14 

Team Compostion: Gaomon, Gazimon, Guilmon
        Total Attack = 364, Total Memory = 14 

Team Compostion: Gazimon, Guilmon, Keramon
        Total Attack = 389, Total Memory = 14 

Team Compostion: Guilmon, Keramon, Goblimon
        Total Attack = 379, Total Memory = 14

Team Compostion: Keramon, Goblimon, Dorumon
        Total Attack = 353, Total Memory = 14

Team Compostion: Goblimon, Dorumon, Hackmon
        Total Attack = 371, Total Memory = 14

Team Compostion: Dorumon, Hackmon, Palmon
        Total Attack = 364, Total Memory = 15

Team Compostion: Hackmon, Palmon, Veemon
        Total Attack = 324, Total Memory = 15

Team Compostion: Palmon, Veemon, Lopmon
        Total Attack = 363, Total Memory = 14

## Collaborators and Helpers:
Claire Goldberg, Tuhin Ghosh, Mr. Lee